# Physics practice

## Melde's Experiment

**AIM:** To determine the frequency of a turing fork, using Melde's arragement.

**Apparatus:**

- Battery Elimintor
- Connecting wires
- electrically maintained vibrator
- tuning fork
- thread
- weighing pan
- weight box
- Smooth pulley fixed to stand
- Metre scale.

**Theory:**

The speed of a wave travelling in a stretched string is given by:
$$ v = \sqrt{\frac{T}{\mu}} $$

Where T is tension on the stretched string and $\mu$ is the mass per unit length

We also know that the frequency of a wave with given velocity in terms of wavelength
is given by:
$$ f = \frac{v}{\lambda} $$

1. When the tuning fork is vibrating transversly the vibrations are perpendicular
   to the length of the string and the wavelength is given by twice the length
   of each loop. $\lambda = 2 l$. Thus frequency is given by

   $$ f= \frac{1}{2l} \sqrt{\frac{T}{\mu}} $$

1. When the tuning fork is vibrating longitudinally the vibrations are parallel
   to the length of the string and the wavelength is equal to the length of each
   loop. $\lambda = l$

   $$ f= \frac{1}{l} \sqrt{\frac{T}{\mu}} $$

## Brewster's Law

**AIM:** To determine the Polarizing angle and Refractive index using Brewsters Law.

**Apparatus:**

- Sodium Lamp
- Spectrometer
- Polaroid attachment
- Glass prism

**Theory:**

According to Brewster's Law:
$$ \mu = tan \theta $$

$\mu$ - Refractive index

$\theta$ - Polarizing angle (brewster's angle)

Usually when partially polarized light falls on a prism, both reflected and
refracted rays are paritally polarized. But at a parrticular angle the
reflected rays are completely polarized and the refracted rays are still
partially polarized. This angle is called angle of polarization or the
brewster's angle.

## Plank's constant

**AIM:** To determine the Planck's constant using the photoelectric effect experimental
setup.

**Apparatus:**

- DC Photo Emissive Cell (Provided with a wide-slit)
- Light source
- Power Supply
- filters of different wavelengths
- filter stand
- Ammeter and Voltmeter setup

**Theory:**

We know that from Plank's equation energy is related to wavelength of light as
$$ E = \frac{hc}{\lambda} $$

If we apply stopping voltage to stop the current generated by this energy.
We get equation as:
$$ V_0e = \frac{hc}{\lambda} $$

Typically we find the difference between two Voltages at different wavelengths
to get a more accurate reading. Thus plancks constant equation is given by:
$$ h = \frac{\lambda_1 \lambda_2(V_2 - V_1)e}{\lambda_1 - \lambda_2} $$

## Band Gap

**AIM:** To determine the bang gap of a given semi conductor.

**Apparatus:**

- D.C Power Supply
- Diode (Semiconductor Diode)
- Thermometer
- Heating arrangement
- Voltmeter
- MicroAmmeter
- Connecting wires
- Stop watch

## Lee-Charlottes experiment

**AIM:** To determine the thermal conductance of bad conductors using the Lee-Charlottes
Experiment.

**Apparatus:**

- Lee's apparatus (heating plate, brass bottom plate)
- Steam generator
- Two Theremometers
- Bad conducting materials (Cardboard, Sanmica, glass)
- Stop Watch
- Beaker

**Theory**:

The rate of heat transfer through conduction is given by:

$$ Q\* = \frac{kA(\theta_1 - \theta_2)}{d} $$

Q\* - heat flow
$\theta_1, \theta_2$ - are the temperatures at different locations.
$d$ - thickness of the conducting meterial

But the rate of heat transfer is also derivate of amount of
heat lost by the substance is given by:

$$ Q\* = ms \frac{d\theta}{dt}$$

Equating both we can find the value of k as.

$$ \frac{kA(\theta_1 - \theta_2)}{d} = ms \frac{d\theta}{dt} $$
$$ k = msd \frac{d\theta}{A(\theta_1 - \theta_2) dt} $$
