# Processes:

All processes are not running in same fashion, some are foreground and others are background:

## Foreground proesses:
The shell waits for the process to finish before it can resume its operations.

Foreground processes can read and write to the controlling terminal (stdin and stdout).

## Background processes:
Has no ability for user interaction once the process is started and doesn't have access to the
controlling terminal. Can write or output to stdin but cannot read from it.

## Switching from foreground to background:
To change from foreground to background we need some signal handling to do, we can't just give 
it write access.

## Making a process wait: Parent and child
Wait() is used along with fork()


# File discriptors (fd)
It is just an alias like thing to denote specific special files. 
- 0 - stdin
- 1 - stdout
- 2 - sterr

File discriptor is a struct (int) which is used to open a file, you use it like ( discriptor name comes from discription ).
Once opened with required permissions a mutable (rw) or immutable buffer called filebuffer i created which may
load the whole data or lazy load it.

For a current state you can find the unix table of file discriptors. When you create one, it makes a new stream
between the file and its mapping that's open.

```{.c}
int file = fopen(path, 'rwa')
```

## Duplicating file discriptors:

- Dup system call: takes in oldfd and duplicates and returns a new fd
- Dup2 system call: takes in oldfd and any newfd and copies oldfd things to newfd, if newfd was running
    it closes it first then runs it

Dup2 is used because instead of using the lowest number fd which is free, it just takes the
fd number that is given as input.

## Pipe

Pipe system call is a virtual file ( also a file in /tmp btw ) which can be written to and from.
This has two fd, rfd and wfd.

## Singal()
This system call is only used for making a particular process be ignored or default action is invoked,
do not use it for anything else.

